David Copperfield by Charles Dickens
Preface to the Charles Dickens editionI remarked in the original 
Preface to this Book, that I did not find it easy to 
getsufficiently far away from it, in the first sensations of 
having finished it, to referto it with the composure which this 
formal heading would seem to require. Myinterest in it was so 
recent and strong, and my mind was so divided betweenpleasure and 
regret -pleasure in the achievement of a long design, regret in 
theseparation from many companions -that I was in danger of 
wearying the readerwith personal confidences and private 
emotions. Besides which, all that I could have said of the Story 
to any purpose, I hadendeavoured to say in it. It would concern 
the reader little, perhaps, to know how sorrowfully the pen 
islaid down at the close of a two-years' imaginative task; or how 
an Author feels asif he were dismissing some portion of himself 
into the shadowy world, when acrowd of the creatures of his brain 
are going from him for ever. Yet, I had nothingelse to tell; 
unless, indeed, I were to confess (which might be of less moment 
still), that no one can ever believe this Narrative, in the 
reading, more than I believed itin the writing. So true are these 
avowals at
history whether that prediction was verified or falsified by the 
result. On thesecond branch of the question, I will only remark, 
that unless I ran through thatpart of my inheritance while I was 
still a baby, I have not come into it yet. But Ido not at all 
complain of having been kept out of this property; and if 
anybodyelse should be in the present enjoyment of it, he is 
heartily welcome to keep it. I was born with a caul, which was 
advertised for sale, in the newspapers, at thelow price of 
fifteen guineas. Whether sea-going people were short of money 
aboutthat time, or were short of faith and preferred cork 
jackets, I don't know; all Iknow is, that there was but one 
solitary bidding, and that was from an attorneyconnected with the 
bill-broking business, who offered two pounds in cash, and 
thebalance in sherry, but declined to be guaranteed from drowning 
on any higherbargain. Consequently the advertisement was 
withdrawn at a dead loss -for as tosherry, my poor dear mother's 
own sherry was in the market then -and ten yearsafterwards, the 
caul was put up in a raffle down in our part of the country, to 
fiftymembers at half-a-crown a head, the winner to spend five 
shillings. I was presentmyself, and I remember to have felt quite 
uncomfortable and confused, at a partof myself being disposed of 
in that way. The caul was won, I recollect, by an oldlady with a 
hand-basket, who, very reluctantly, produced